A few quick notes on
the minimum edit distance
implementation you learned.
Measuring the edit
distance by using
the three edits:
inserts, deletes,
and replace with costs 1, 1,
and 2 respectively is known
as Levenshtein distance.
That's what you've used here.
You can look it up for
more details if you like.
There are also
well-known alternatives
that have different edit rules.
Finding the minimum
edit distance on its
own doesn't always solve
the whole problem.
You sometimes need to know
how you got there too.
You do this by keeping
a backtrace which is
simply pointer in each cell
letting you know where you
came from to get there.
So you know the path taken
across the table from
the top-left corner to
the bottom-right corner.
This tells you the
edits taken and is
particularly useful in problems
dealing with string alignment.
But that's a discussion
for another time.
Finally, this tabular
method for computation
instead of brute force is
a technique known as
dynamic programming.
Intuitively, this just means
that solving the
smallest subproblem
first and then reusing
that result to solve the
next biggest subproblem.
Saving that result, reusing
it again and so on.
This is what you did here by
solving each cell in order.
It's a well-known technique
in computer science and will
appear again and again
in the coming weeks
of this course.
That's it. This was a long
lesson, so well done.
You should be proud of yourself.
You took the problem of solving
minimum edit distance and
broke it down into parts.
Then used the tabular
based approach
step-by-step for
a very efficient
implementation. Great work.
Now try the programming
assignment where you will code up
this example with an
optional challenge
to build a backtrace tool.
What a journey?
You're just getting started here.
The weeks ahead are loaded
with more exciting stuff.
But before you go, a quick recap.
In the past few lessons,
you learned a lot about
some real-world applications of
NLP that you're probably
using every day.
You learned about autocorrect
and what it is and how
it works its magic.
You went step-by-step
through how to build
a working autoCorrect model using
edit distance and
work probabilities.
You learned about the problem of
string similarity and metric
of minimum edit distance.
Finally, you learned
a really cool way
to solve minimum edit distance
using a tabular
algorithmic technique
known as dynamic programming.
You now have the
know-how to practice
all these new skills in
the week 1 programming
assignments.
Have fun and good luck.
Now you know how to calculate
the minimum edit distance
using dynamic programming.
Next week, you'll use
dynamic programming
again to assign part of
speech tags to words.
It's an exciting application
which Jones will show you.